docs/api/ESCMovable.md, before:

<!-- Auto-generated from JSON by GDScript docs maker. Do not edit this document directly. -->

# ESCMovable

**Extends:** [Node](../Node)

## Description

Node that performs the moving (walk, teleport, terrain scaling...) actions on
its parent node.

## Enumerations

### MovableTask

```gdscript
const MovableTask: Dictionary = {"NONE":0,"SLIDE":2,"WALK":1}
```

Tasks carried out by this walkable node
NONE - The node is inactive
WALK - The node walks the parent somewhere
SLIDE - The node slides the parent somewhere

## Property Descriptions

### walk\_path

```gdscript
var walk_path: Array
```

Character path through the scene as calculated by the Pathfinder

### path\_ofs

```gdscript
var path_ofs: int
```

Current active walk path entry

### walk\_destination

```gdscript
var walk_destination: Vector2
```

The destination where the character should be moving to

### walk\_context

```gdscript
var walk_context: ESCWalkContext
```

The walk context currently carried out by this movable node

### moved

```gdscript
var moved: bool
```

Wether the character was moved at all

### last\_dir

```gdscript
var last_dir: int
```

Player Direction used to reflect the movement to the new position

### last\_scale

```gdscript
var last_scale: Vector2
```

The last scaling applied to the parent

### pose\_scale

```gdscript
var pose_scale: int
```

Wether the current direction animation is flipped

### parent

```gdscript
var parent
```

Shortcut variable that references the node's parent

### task

```gdscript
var task
```

Currenly running task

## Method Descriptions

### teleport

```gdscript
func teleport(target: Node) -> void
```

Teleports this item to the target position.

#### Parameters

- target: Position2d or ESCItem to teleport to

### teleport\_to

```gdscript
func teleport_to(target: Vector2) -> void
```

Teleports this item to the target position.

#### Parameters

- target: Vector2 target position to teleport to

### walk\_to

```gdscript
func walk_to(pos: Vector2, p_walk_context: ESCWalkContext = null) -> void
```

Walk to a given position

#### Parameters

- pos: Position to walk to
- p_walk_context: Walk context to use

### walk\_stop

```gdscript
func walk_stop(pos: Vector2) -> void
```

We have finished walking. Set the idle pose and complete

#### Parameters

- pos: Final target position

### update\_terrain

```gdscript
func update_terrain(on_event_finished_name = null) -> void
```

Update the sprite scale and lighting

#### Parameters

- on_event_finished_name: Used if this function is called from an ESC event

### set\_angle

```gdscript
func set_angle(deg: int, immediate = true) -> var
```

Sets character's angle and plays according animation.

#### Parameters

- deg int angle to set the character
- immediate
	If true, direction is switched immediately. Else, successive
	animations are used so that the character turns to target angle.

### get\_shortest\_way\_to\_dir

```gdscript
func get_shortest_way_to_dir(current_dir: int, target_dir: int) -> int
```

 Return the shortest way to turn from a direction to another. Returned way is
either:
-1 (shortest way is to turn anti-clockwise)
0 (already at the right direction)
1 (clockwise).

####Parameters
- current_dir: integer corresponding to the starting direction as defined in
the attached ESCAnimationResource.directions.
- target_dir: integer corresponding to the target direction as defined in
the attached ESCAnimationResource.directions.

*Returns*
Integer: -1 (anti-clockwise), 1 (clockwise) or 0 (no movement needed).

Commit message:

Re-implemented turn_to command (#390)
* Re-implemented turn_to command

Fixes #385
Fixed a bug in esc_movable blocking player_orients_on_arrival for ESCLocation nodes

* docs: Automatic update of API docs

* Fixes

Co-authored-by: StraToN <StraToN@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/api/ESCMovable.md, after:

<!-- Auto-generated from JSON by GDScript docs maker. Do not edit this document directly. -->

# ESCMovable

**Extends:** [Node](../Node)

## Description

Node that performs the moving (walk, teleport, terrain scaling...) actions on
its parent node.

## Enumerations

### MovableTask

```gdscript
const MovableTask: Dictionary = {"NONE":0,"SLIDE":2,"WALK":1}
```

Tasks carried out by this walkable node
NONE - The node is inactive
WALK - The node walks the parent somewhere
SLIDE - The node slides the parent somewhere

## Property Descriptions

### walk\_path

```gdscript
var walk_path: Array
```

Character path through the scene as calculated by the Pathfinder

### path\_ofs

```gdscript
var path_ofs: int
```

Current active walk path entry

### walk\_destination

```gdscript
var walk_destination: Vector2
```

The destination where the character should be moving to

### walk\_context

```gdscript
var walk_context: ESCWalkContext
```

The walk context currently carried out by this movable node

### moved

```gdscript
var moved: bool
```

Wether the character was moved at all

### last\_dir

```gdscript
var last_dir: int
```

Player Direction used to reflect the movement to the new position

### last\_scale

```gdscript
var last_scale: Vector2
```

The last scaling applied to the parent

### pose\_scale

```gdscript
var pose_scale: int
```

Wether the current direction animation is flipped

### parent

```gdscript
var parent
```

Shortcut variable that references the node's parent

### task

```gdscript
var task
```

Currenly running task

## Method Descriptions

### teleport

```gdscript
func teleport(target: Node) -> void
```

Teleports this item to the target position.

#### Parameters

- target: Position2d or ESCItem to teleport to

### teleport\_to

```gdscript
func teleport_to(target: Vector2) -> void
```

Teleports this item to the target position.

#### Parameters

- target: Vector2 target position to teleport to

### walk\_to

```gdscript
func walk_to(pos: Vector2, p_walk_context: ESCWalkContext = null) -> void
```

Walk to a given position

#### Parameters

- pos: Position to walk to
- p_walk_context: Walk context to use

### walk\_stop

```gdscript
func walk_stop(pos: Vector2) -> void
```

We have finished walking. Set the idle pose and complete

#### Parameters

- pos: Final target position

### update\_terrain

```gdscript
func update_terrain(on_event_finished_name = null) -> void
```

Update the sprite scale and lighting

#### Parameters

- on_event_finished_name: Used if this function is called from an ESC event

### set\_angle

```gdscript
func set_angle(deg: int, immediate = true) -> var
```

Sets character's angle and plays according animation.

#### Parameters

- deg int angle to set the character
- immediate
	If true, direction is switched immediately. Else, successive
	animations are used so that the character turns to target angle.

### turn\_to

```gdscript
func turn_to(item: Node, immediate = true) -> void
```

Turns the character to face another item or character.

#### Parameters

- item_id id of the object to face.
- immediate
	If true, direction is switched immediately. Else, successive
	animations are used so that the character turns to target angle.

### get\_shortest\_way\_to\_dir

```gdscript
func get_shortest_way_to_dir(current_dir: int, target_dir: int) -> int
```

 Return the shortest way to turn from a direction to another. Returned way is
either:
-1 (shortest way is to turn anti-clockwise)
0 (already at the right direction)
1 (clockwise).

####Parameters
- current_dir: integer corresponding to the starting direction as defined in
the attached ESCAnimationResource.directions.
- target_dir: integer corresponding to the target direction as defined in
the attached ESCAnimationResource.directions.

*Returns*
Integer: -1 (anti-clockwise), 1 (clockwise) or 0 (no movement needed).
