docs/esc.md, before:

# ESC language documentation

## Objects

### Global IDs

All objects in the game have a global ID, which is used to identify them in commands. The ID is configured in the object's scene.

### States

Each object can have a "state". The state is stored in the global state of the game, and the savegame, and it's set on the object when the scene is instanced. States can also be animations with the same name in the object's scene, in that case the animation is run when the state is set.

For the [bg_sound](api/EscBackgroundSound.md) and [bg_music](api/EscBackgroundMusic.md) objects, the state also means the currently running music or sound.

### Active objects

Objects can be active or inactive. Inactive objects are hidden and non clickable.

Item activity is also handled as a special case of global flags. If the check starts with "a/", like "a/elaine", you're checking if "elaine" is active.

```
:ready
> [!a/elaine]
    say player player_no_elaine_yet:"It would appear Elaine hasn't arrived yet."
```

### Interactive objects

If you have something that only blocks the terrain, something you can move behind, you probably don't want to hassle with interaction areas and tooltip texts. In this case, just set `is_interactive` to `false` and the item will not be checked for areas and its mouse events will not be connected.

## Global flags

Global flags define the state of the game, and can have any value (true/false, numbers and strings). All commands or groups can be conditioned to the value of a global flag.

### Inventory

The inventory is handled as a special case of global flags. All flags with a name starting with "i/" are considered an inventory object, with the object's global id following. Example:

```
# Waits for 5 seconds if the player has the key in its inventory
wait 5 [i/key]
```

## Events

All ESC scripts are divided into a series of events, which in turn run commands or dialogs.

An event has a name and the prefix ":" like this:

`:ready`

While you can use arbitrary event names (for example to schedule them with the `sched_event`command), there are some special events that are called by Escoria when certain things happen:

* `:setup` (on an ESCScene object): Called before the transition is performed.
* `:ready`(on an ESCScene object): Called after the transition is performed.
* `:use <global id>`(on an ESCItem object): Called when the inventory item `<global id>`was used with this item
* `:<verb>`(on an ESCItem object): Called when a special verb was used on the item (e.g. `:look`)

To initialize a room properly, you may want to use `:setup` like this:

```
:setup
teleport player door1 [eq ESC_LAST_SCENE scene1]
teleport player door2 [eq ESC_LAST_SCENE scene2]
```

This will teleport the player to the respective point in the scene, depending on the last visited scene, which is stored in the special global state `ESC_LAST_SCENE`.

Events understand a series of flags. These flags are currently implemented:

* `TK` stands for "telekinetic". It means the player won't walk over to the item to say the line
* `NO_TT` stands for "No tooltip". It hides the tooltip for the duration of the event
* `NO_HUD` stands for "No HUD". It hides the HUD for the duration of the event. Useful when you want something to look like a cut scene but not disable input for skipping dialog.
* `NO_SAVE` disables saving. Use this in cut scenes and anywhere a badly-timed autosave would leave your game in a messed-up state.
* `CUT_BLACK` applies only to `:setup`. It makes the screen go black during the setup phase. You will probably see a quick black flash, so use it only if you prefer it over the standard cut.
* `LEAVE_BLACK` applies only to `:setup`. In case your `:ready` starts with `cut_scene telon fade_in`, you must apply this flag or you will see a flash of your new scene before going black again for the `fade_in`.

## Commands

Commands consist of one word followed by parameters. Parameters can be one word, or strings in quotes.

```
# one parameter "player", another parameter "hello world"
say player "hello world"
```

### Conditions

In order to run a command conditionally depending on the value of a flag, use `[]` with a list of comma separated conditions. All conditions in the list must be true. The character "!" before a flag can be used to negate it.

Example:

```
# runs the command only if the door_open flag is true
say player "The door is open" [door_open]
```

```
# runs the group only if door_open is false and i/key is true
> [!door_open,i/key]
	say player "The door is close, maybe I can try this key in my inventory"
```

Additionally, there's a set of comparison operators for use with global integers: `eq`, `gt` and `lt`, all of which can be negated.
Example:

```
# runs the command only if the value of pieces_of_eight is greater than 5
set_state inv_pieces_of_eight money_bag [gt pieces_of_eight 5]
```

### Groups

Commands can be grouped using the character ">" to start a group, and incrementing the indentation of the commands that belong to the group. Example:

```
>
	set_global door_open true
	anim player pick_up
# end of group
```

Groups cann also use conditions:

```
# Present the key if the player already has it
> [i/key]
	say player "I got the key!"
	anim player show_key
```



### Blocking

Some commands will block execution of the event until they finish, others won't. See the command's reference for details on which commands block.

### List of commands

<!-- ESCCOMMANDS -->
#### <a name="AcceptInputCommand.md"></a>`accept_input [ALL|NONE|SKIP]` [API-Doc](api/AcceptInputCommand.md)

What type of input does the game accept. ALL is the default, SKIP allows
skipping of dialog but nothing else, NONE denies all input. Including opening
the menu etc. SKIP and NONE also disable autosaves.

*Note* that SKIP gets reset to ALL when the event is done, but NONE persists.
This allows you to create cut scenes with SKIP where the dialog can be
skipped, but also initiate locked#### down cutscenes with accept_input
NONE in :setup and accept_input ALL later in :ready.
#### <a name="AnimCommand.md"></a>`anim object name [reverse]` [API-Doc](api/AnimCommand.md)

Executes the animation specificed with the "name" parameter on the object,
without blocking. The next command in the event will be executed immediately
after. Optional parameters:

* reverse: plays the animation in reverse when true
#### <a name="CameraPushCommand.md"></a>`camera_push target [time] [type]` [API-Doc](api/CameraPushCommand.md)

Push camera to `target`. Target must have camera_pos set. If it's of type
Camera2D, its zoom will be used as well as position. `type` is any of the
Tween.TransitionType values without the prefix, eg. LINEAR, QUART or CIRC;
defaults to QUART. A `time` value of 0 will set the camera immediately.
#### <a name="CameraSetLimitsCommand.md"></a>`camera_set_limits camlimits_id` [API-Doc](api/CameraSetLimitsCommand.md)

Sets the camera limits to the one defined under `camlimits_id` in ESCRoom's
camera_limits array.
- camlimits_id: int: id of the camera limits to apply (defined in ESCRoom's
  camera_limits array)
#### <a name="CameraSetPosCommand.md"></a>`camera_set_pos speed x y` [API-Doc](api/CameraSetPosCommand.md)

Moves the camera to a position defined by "x" and "y", at the speed defined
by "speed" in pixels per second. If speed is 0, camera is teleported to the
position.
#### <a name="CameraSetTargetCommand.md"></a>`camera_set_target speed object` [API-Doc](api/CameraSetTargetCommand.md)

Configures the camera to set the target to the given `object`using `speed`
as speed limit.
This is the default behavior (default follow object is "player").
#### <a name="CameraSetZoomCommand.md"></a>`camera_set_zoom magnitude [time]` [API-Doc](api/CameraSetZoomCommand.md)

Zooms the camera in/out to the desired `magnitude`. Values larger than 1 zooms
the camera out, and smaller values zooms in, relative to the default value
of 1. An optional `time` in seconds controls how long it takes for the camera
to zoom into position.
#### <a name="CameraSetZoomHeightCommand.md"></a>`camera_set_zoom_height pixels [time]` [API-Doc](api/CameraSetZoomHeightCommand.md)

Zooms the camera in/out to the desired `pixels` height.
An optional `time` in seconds controls how long it takes for the camera
to zoom into position.
#### <a name="CameraShiftCommand.md"></a>`camera_shift x y [time] [type]` [API-Doc](api/CameraShiftCommand.md)

Shift camera by `x` and `y` pixels over `time` seconds. `type` is any of the
Tween.TransitionType values without the prefix, eg. LINEAR, QUART or CIRC;
defaults to QUART.
#### <a name="ChangeSceneCommand.md"></a>`change_scene path run_events` [API-Doc](api/ChangeSceneCommand.md)

Loads a new scene, specified by "path". The `run_events` variable is a
boolean (default true) which you never want to set manually! It's there only
to benefit save games, so they don't conflict with the scene's events.
#### <a name="CustomCommand.md"></a>`custom object node func_name [params]` [API-Doc](api/CustomCommand.md)

Calls the function `func_name` of the node `node` of object `object` with
the optional `params`. This is a blocking function
#### <a name="CutSceneCommand.md"></a>`cut_scene object name [reverse]` [API-Doc](api/CutSceneCommand.md)

Executes the animation specificed with the "name" parameter on the object,
blocking. The next command in the event will be executed when the animation
is finished playing. Optional parameters:

* reverse plays the animation in reverse when true
#### <a name="DebugCommand.md"></a>`debug string [string2 ...]` [API-Doc](api/DebugCommand.md)

Takes 1 or more strings, prints them to the console.
#### <a name="DecGlobalCommand.md"></a>`dec_global name value` [API-Doc](api/DecGlobalCommand.md)

Subtracts the value from global with given "name". Value and global must
both be integers.
#### <a name="EnableTerrainCommand.md"></a>`enable_terrain node_name` [API-Doc](api/EnableTerrainCommand.md)

Enable the ESCTerrain's NavigationPolygonInstance defined by given node name.
Disables previously activated NavigationPolygonInstance.
#### <a name="IncGlobalCommand.md"></a>`inc_global name value` [API-Doc](api/IncGlobalCommand.md)

Adds the value to global with given "name". Value and global must both be
integers.
#### <a name="InventoryAddCommand.md"></a>`inventory_add item` [API-Doc](api/InventoryAddCommand.md)

Add an item to the inventory
#### <a name="InventoryRemoveCommand.md"></a>`inventory_remove item` [API-Doc](api/InventoryRemoveCommand.md)

Remove an item from the inventory.
#### <a name="PlaySndCommand.md"></a>`play_snd file [player]` [API-Doc](api/PlaySndCommand.md)

Plays the sound specificed with the "file" parameter on the sound player
`player`, without blocking. (player defaults to bg_sound)
#### <a name="QueueResourceCommand.md"></a>`queue_resource path [front_of_queue]` [API-Doc](api/QueueResourceCommand.md)

Queues the load of a resource in a background thread. The `path` must be a
full path inside your game, for example "res://scenes/next_scene.tscn". The
"front_of_queue" parameter is optional (default value false), to put the
resource in the front of the queue. Queued resources are cleared when a
change scene happens (but after the scene is loaded, meaning you can queue
resources that belong to the next scene).
#### <a name="RandGlobalCommand.md"></a>`rand_global name max_value` [API-Doc](api/RandGlobalCommand.md)

Fills the "name" global with a random value between 0 and max-value-1.
#### <a name="RepeatCommand.md"></a>`repeat` [API-Doc](api/RepeatCommand.md)

Restarts the execution of the current scope at the start. A scope can be a
group or an event.
#### <a name="SayCommand.md"></a>`say object text [type] [avatar]` [API-Doc](api/SayCommand.md)

Runs the specified string as a dialog said by the object. Blocks execution
until the dialog finishes playing. Optional parameters:

* "type" determines the type of dialog UI to use. Default value is "default"
* "avatar" determines the avatar to use for the dialog. Default value is
  "default"
#### <a name="SchedEventCommand.md"></a>`sched_event time object event` [API-Doc](api/SchedEventCommand.md)

Schedules the execution of an "event" found in "object" in a time in seconds.
If another event is running at the time, execution starts when the running
event ends.
#### <a name="SetActiveCommand.md"></a>`set_active object value` [API-Doc](api/SetActiveCommand.md)

Changes the "active" state of the object, value can be true or false.
Inactive objects are hidden in the scene.
#### <a name="SetAngleCommand.md"></a>`set_angle object degrees [immediate]` [API-Doc](api/SetAngleCommand.md)

Turns object to a degrees angle without animations. 0 sets object facing
forward, 90 sets it 90 degrees clockwise ("east") etc. When turning to the
destination angle, animations are played if they're defined in animations.

object must be player or interactive. degrees must be between [0, 360] or an
error is reported.
#### <a name="SetGlobalCommand.md"></a>`set_global name value` [API-Doc](api/SetGlobalCommand.md)

Changes the value of the global "name" with the value. Value can be "true",
"false" or an integer.
#### <a name="SetGlobalsCommand.md"></a>`set_globals pattern value` [API-Doc](api/SetGlobalsCommand.md)

Changes the value of multiple globals using a wildcard pattern, where "*"
matches zero or more arbitrary characters and "?" matches any single
character except a period (".").
#### <a name="SetHudVisibleCommand.md"></a>`set_hud_visible visible` [API-Doc](api/SetHudVisibleCommand.md)

If you have a cutscene like sequence where the player doesn't have control,
and you also have HUD elements visible, use this to hide the HUD. You want
to do that because it explicitly signals the player that there is no control
over the game at the moment. "visible" is true or false.
#### <a name="SetInteractiveCommand.md"></a>`set_interactive object value` [API-Doc](api/SetInteractiveCommand.md)

Sets whether or not an object should be interactive.
#### <a name="SetSoundStateCommand.md"></a>`set_sound_state player sound loop` [API-Doc](api/SetSoundStateCommand.md)

Change the sound playing on `player` to `sound` with optional looping if
`loop` is true.
Valid players are "bg_music" and "bg_sound".
Aside from paths to sound or music files, the values *off* and *default*.
*default* is the default value.
are also valid for `sound`
#### <a name="SetSpeedCommand.md"></a>`set_speed object speed` [API-Doc](api/SetSpeedCommand.md)

Sets how fast object moves. Speed is an integer.
#### <a name="SetStateCommand.md"></a>`set_state object state [immediate]` [API-Doc](api/SetStateCommand.md)

Changes the state of an object, and executes the state animation if present.
The command can be used to change the appearance of an item or a player
character.
If `immediate` is set to true, the animation is run directly
#### <a name="SlideBlockCommand.md"></a>`slide_block object1 object2 [speed]` [API-Doc](api/SlideBlockCommand.md)

**This command is currently not fully implemented.**

Moves object1 towards the position of object2, at the speed determined by
object1's "speed" property, unless overridden. This command is blocking.
It does not respect the room's navigation polygons, so you can move items
where the player can't walk.
#### <a name="SlideCommand.md"></a>`slide object1 object2 [speed]` [API-Doc](api/SlideCommand.md)

**This command is currently not fully implemented.**

Moves object1 towards the position of object2, at the speed determined by
object1's "speed" property, unless overridden. This command is non-blocking.
It does not respect the room's navigation polygons, so you can move items
where the player can't walk.
#### <a name="SpawnCommand.md"></a>`spawn path [object2]` [API-Doc](api/SpawnCommand.md)

Instances a scene determined by "path", and places in the position of
object2 (object2 is optional)
#### <a name="StopCommand.md"></a>`stop` [API-Doc](api/StopCommand.md)

Stops the event's execution.
#### <a name="TeleportCommand.md"></a>`teleport object1 object2` [API-Doc](api/TeleportCommand.md)

Sets the position of object1 to the position of object2.
#### <a name="TeleportPosCommand.md"></a>`teleport_pos object1 x y` [API-Doc](api/TeleportPosCommand.md)

Sets the position of object1 to the position (x,y).
#### <a name="TurnToCommand.md"></a>`turn_to object degrees [immediate]` [API-Doc](api/TurnToCommand.md)

**This command is currently not fully implemented.**

Turns object to a degrees angle with a directions animation.

0 sets object facing forward, 90 sets it 90 degrees clockwise ("east") etc.
When turning to the destination angle, animations are played if they're
defined in animations. object must be player or interactive. degrees must
be between [0, 360] or an error is reported.

Set immediate to true to show directly switch to the direction and not
show intermediate angles
#### <a name="WaitCommand.md"></a>`wait seconds` [API-Doc](api/WaitCommand.md)

Blocks execution of the current script for a number of seconds specified by the "seconds" parameter.
#### <a name="WalkBlockCommand.md"></a>`walk_block object1 object2 [speed]` [API-Doc](api/WalkBlockCommand.md)

Walks, using the walk animation, object1 towards the position of object2,
at the speed determined by object1's "speed" property,
unless overridden. This command is blocking.
#### <a name="WalkCommand.md"></a>`walk object1 object2 [speed]` [API-Doc](api/WalkCommand.md)

Walks, using the walk animation, object1 towards the position of object2,
at the speed determined by object1's "speed" property,
unless overridden. This command is non-blocking.
#### <a name="WalkToPosBlockCommand.md"></a>`walk_to_pos_block player x y` [API-Doc](api/WalkToPosBlockCommand.md)

Makes the `player` walk to the position `x`/`y`. This is a blocking command.
#### <a name="WalkToPosCommand.md"></a>`walk_to_pos player x y` [API-Doc](api/WalkToPosCommand.md)

Makes the `player` walk to the position `x`/`y`.

<!-- /ESCCOMMANDS -->
















## Dialogs

Dialogs are specified by writing `?` with optional parameters, followed by a list of dialog options starting with `-`. Use `!` to end the dialog.

The following parameters are available:

* avatar: the path to a scene displaying an avatar used in the UI. Defaults to no avatar. To only set the remaining options, set this field to "-"
* timeout: (default value 0) timeout to select an option. After the time has passed, the "timeout_option" will be selected automatically. If the value is 0, there's no timeout.
* timeout_option: (default value 0) index of option (starting from 1) selected when timeout is reached.

Example:

```
# character's "talk" event
:talk
? avatar timeout timeout_option
	- "I'd like to buy a map." [!player_has_map]
		say player "I'd like to buy a map"
		say map_vendor "Do you know the secret code?"
		?
			- "Uncle Sven sends regards."
				say player "Uncle Sven sends regards."

				>	[player_has_money]
					say map_vendor "Here you go."
					say player "Thanks!"
					inventory_add map
					set_global player_has_map true
					stop

				>	[!player_has_money]
					say map_vendor "You can't afford it"
					say player "I'll be back"
          !
					stop

			- "Nevermind"
				say player "Nevermind"
        !
				stop
	- "Nevermind"
		say player "Nevermind"
    !
		stop
repeat
```

Commit message:

feat: (Re-)Implemented support for translation keys, added a german translation and fixed menus

docs/esc.md, after:

# ESC language documentation

## Objects

### Global IDs

All objects in the game have a global ID, which is used to identify them in commands. The ID is configured in the object's scene.

### States

Each object can have a "state". The state is stored in the global state of the game, and the savegame, and it's set on the object when the scene is instanced. States can also be animations with the same name in the object's scene, in that case the animation is run when the state is set.

For the [bg_sound](api/EscBackgroundSound.md) and [bg_music](api/EscBackgroundMusic.md) objects, the state also means the currently running music or sound.

### Active objects

Objects can be active or inactive. Inactive objects are hidden and non clickable.

Item activity is also handled as a special case of global flags. If the check starts with "a/", like "a/elaine", you're checking if "elaine" is active.

```
:ready
> [!a/elaine]
    say player player_no_elaine_yet:"It would appear Elaine hasn't arrived yet."
```

### Interactive objects

If you have something that only blocks the terrain, something you can move behind, you probably don't want to hassle with interaction areas and tooltip texts. In this case, just set `is_interactive` to `false` and the item will not be checked for areas and its mouse events will not be connected.

## Global flags

Global flags define the state of the game, and can have any value (true/false, numbers and strings). All commands or groups can be conditioned to the value of a global flag.

### Inventory

The inventory is handled as a special case of global flags. All flags with a name starting with "i/" are considered an inventory object, with the object's global id following. Example:

```
# Waits for 5 seconds if the player has the key in its inventory
wait 5 [i/key]
```

## Events

All ESC scripts are divided into a series of events, which in turn run commands or dialogs.

An event has a name and the prefix ":" like this:

`:ready`

While you can use arbitrary event names (for example to schedule them with the `sched_event`command), there are some special events that are called by Escoria when certain things happen:

* `:setup` (on an ESCScene object): Called before the transition is performed.
* `:ready`(on an ESCScene object): Called after the transition is performed.
* `:use <global id>`(on an ESCItem object): Called when the inventory item `<global id>`was used with this item
* `:<verb>`(on an ESCItem object): Called when a special verb was used on the item (e.g. `:look`)

To initialize a room properly, you may want to use `:setup` like this:

```
:setup
teleport player door1 [eq ESC_LAST_SCENE scene1]
teleport player door2 [eq ESC_LAST_SCENE scene2]
```

This will teleport the player to the respective point in the scene, depending on the last visited scene, which is stored in the special global state `ESC_LAST_SCENE`.

Events understand a series of flags. These flags are currently implemented:

* `TK` stands for "telekinetic". It means the player won't walk over to the item to say the line
* `NO_TT` stands for "No tooltip". It hides the tooltip for the duration of the event
* `NO_HUD` stands for "No HUD". It hides the HUD for the duration of the event. Useful when you want something to look like a cut scene but not disable input for skipping dialog.
* `NO_SAVE` disables saving. Use this in cut scenes and anywhere a badly-timed autosave would leave your game in a messed-up state.
* `CUT_BLACK` applies only to `:setup`. It makes the screen go black during the setup phase. You will probably see a quick black flash, so use it only if you prefer it over the standard cut.
* `LEAVE_BLACK` applies only to `:setup`. In case your `:ready` starts with `cut_scene telon fade_in`, you must apply this flag or you will see a flash of your new scene before going black again for the `fade_in`.

## Commands

Commands consist of one word followed by parameters. Parameters can be one word, or strings in quotes.

```
# one parameter "player", another parameter "hello world"
say player "hello world"
```

### Conditions

In order to run a command conditionally depending on the value of a flag, use `[]` with a list of comma separated conditions. All conditions in the list must be true. The character "!" before a flag can be used to negate it.

Example:

```
# runs the command only if the door_open flag is true
say player "The door is open" [door_open]
```

```
# runs the group only if door_open is false and i/key is true
> [!door_open,i/key]
	say player "The door is close, maybe I can try this key in my inventory"
```

Additionally, there's a set of comparison operators for use with global integers: `eq`, `gt` and `lt`, all of which can be negated.
Example:

```
# runs the command only if the value of pieces_of_eight is greater than 5
set_state inv_pieces_of_eight money_bag [gt pieces_of_eight 5]
```

### Groups

Commands can be grouped using the character ">" to start a group, and incrementing the indentation of the commands that belong to the group. Example:

```
>
	set_global door_open true
	anim player pick_up
# end of group
```

Groups cann also use conditions:

```
# Present the key if the player already has it
> [i/key]
	say player "I got the key!"
	anim player show_key
```



### Blocking

Some commands will block execution of the event until they finish, others won't. See the command's reference for details on which commands block.

### List of commands

<!-- ESCCOMMANDS -->
#### <a name="AcceptInputCommand.md"></a>`accept_input [ALL|NONE|SKIP]` [API-Doc](api/AcceptInputCommand.md)

What type of input does the game accept. ALL is the default, SKIP allows
skipping of dialog but nothing else, NONE denies all input. Including opening
the menu etc. SKIP and NONE also disable autosaves.

*Note* that SKIP gets reset to ALL when the event is done, but NONE persists.
This allows you to create cut scenes with SKIP where the dialog can be
skipped, but also initiate locked#### down cutscenes with accept_input
NONE in :setup and accept_input ALL later in :ready.
#### <a name="AnimCommand.md"></a>`anim object name [reverse]` [API-Doc](api/AnimCommand.md)

Executes the animation specificed with the "name" parameter on the object,
without blocking. The next command in the event will be executed immediately
after. Optional parameters:

* reverse: plays the animation in reverse when true
#### <a name="CameraPushCommand.md"></a>`camera_push target [time] [type]` [API-Doc](api/CameraPushCommand.md)

Push camera to `target`. Target must have camera_pos set. If it's of type
Camera2D, its zoom will be used as well as position. `type` is any of the
Tween.TransitionType values without the prefix, eg. LINEAR, QUART or CIRC;
defaults to QUART. A `time` value of 0 will set the camera immediately.
#### <a name="CameraSetLimitsCommand.md"></a>`camera_set_limits camlimits_id` [API-Doc](api/CameraSetLimitsCommand.md)

Sets the camera limits to the one defined under `camlimits_id` in ESCRoom's
camera_limits array.
- camlimits_id: int: id of the camera limits to apply (defined in ESCRoom's
  camera_limits array)
#### <a name="CameraSetPosCommand.md"></a>`camera_set_pos speed x y` [API-Doc](api/CameraSetPosCommand.md)

Moves the camera to a position defined by "x" and "y", at the speed defined
by "speed" in pixels per second. If speed is 0, camera is teleported to the
position.
#### <a name="CameraSetTargetCommand.md"></a>`camera_set_target speed object` [API-Doc](api/CameraSetTargetCommand.md)

Configures the camera to set the target to the given `object`using `speed`
as speed limit.
This is the default behavior (default follow object is "player").
#### <a name="CameraSetZoomCommand.md"></a>`camera_set_zoom magnitude [time]` [API-Doc](api/CameraSetZoomCommand.md)

Zooms the camera in/out to the desired `magnitude`. Values larger than 1 zooms
the camera out, and smaller values zooms in, relative to the default value
of 1. An optional `time` in seconds controls how long it takes for the camera
to zoom into position.
#### <a name="CameraSetZoomHeightCommand.md"></a>`camera_set_zoom_height pixels [time]` [API-Doc](api/CameraSetZoomHeightCommand.md)

Zooms the camera in/out to the desired `pixels` height.
An optional `time` in seconds controls how long it takes for the camera
to zoom into position.
#### <a name="CameraShiftCommand.md"></a>`camera_shift x y [time] [type]` [API-Doc](api/CameraShiftCommand.md)

Shift camera by `x` and `y` pixels over `time` seconds. `type` is any of the
Tween.TransitionType values without the prefix, eg. LINEAR, QUART or CIRC;
defaults to QUART.
#### <a name="ChangeSceneCommand.md"></a>`change_scene path run_events` [API-Doc](api/ChangeSceneCommand.md)

Loads a new scene, specified by "path". The `run_events` variable is a
boolean (default true) which you never want to set manually! It's there only
to benefit save games, so they don't conflict with the scene's events.
#### <a name="CustomCommand.md"></a>`custom object node func_name [params]` [API-Doc](api/CustomCommand.md)

Calls the function `func_name` of the node `node` of object `object` with
the optional `params`. This is a blocking function
#### <a name="CutSceneCommand.md"></a>`cut_scene object name [reverse]` [API-Doc](api/CutSceneCommand.md)

Executes the animation specificed with the "name" parameter on the object,
blocking. The next command in the event will be executed when the animation
is finished playing. Optional parameters:

* reverse plays the animation in reverse when true
#### <a name="DebugCommand.md"></a>`debug string [string2 ...]` [API-Doc](api/DebugCommand.md)

Takes 1 or more strings, prints them to the console.
#### <a name="DecGlobalCommand.md"></a>`dec_global name value` [API-Doc](api/DecGlobalCommand.md)

Subtracts the value from global with given "name". Value and global must
both be integers.
#### <a name="EnableTerrainCommand.md"></a>`enable_terrain node_name` [API-Doc](api/EnableTerrainCommand.md)

Enable the ESCTerrain's NavigationPolygonInstance defined by given node name.
Disables previously activated NavigationPolygonInstance.
#### <a name="IncGlobalCommand.md"></a>`inc_global name value` [API-Doc](api/IncGlobalCommand.md)

Adds the value to global with given "name". Value and global must both be
integers.
#### <a name="InventoryAddCommand.md"></a>`inventory_add item` [API-Doc](api/InventoryAddCommand.md)

Add an item to the inventory
#### <a name="InventoryRemoveCommand.md"></a>`inventory_remove item` [API-Doc](api/InventoryRemoveCommand.md)

Remove an item from the inventory.
#### <a name="PlaySndCommand.md"></a>`play_snd file [player]` [API-Doc](api/PlaySndCommand.md)

Plays the sound specificed with the "file" parameter on the sound player
`player`, without blocking. (player defaults to bg_sound)
#### <a name="QueueResourceCommand.md"></a>`queue_resource path [front_of_queue]` [API-Doc](api/QueueResourceCommand.md)

Queues the load of a resource in a background thread. The `path` must be a
full path inside your game, for example "res://scenes/next_scene.tscn". The
"front_of_queue" parameter is optional (default value false), to put the
resource in the front of the queue. Queued resources are cleared when a
change scene happens (but after the scene is loaded, meaning you can queue
resources that belong to the next scene).
#### <a name="RandGlobalCommand.md"></a>`rand_global name max_value` [API-Doc](api/RandGlobalCommand.md)

Fills the "name" global with a random value between 0 and max-value-1.
#### <a name="RepeatCommand.md"></a>`repeat` [API-Doc](api/RepeatCommand.md)

Restarts the execution of the current scope at the start. A scope can be a
group or an event.
#### <a name="SayCommand.md"></a>`say object text [type] [avatar]` [API-Doc](api/SayCommand.md)

Runs the specified string as a dialog said by the object. Blocks execution
until the dialog finishes playing. Optional parameters:

* "type" determines the type of dialog UI to use. Default value is "default"
* "avatar" determines the avatar to use for the dialog. Default value is
  "default"
#### <a name="SchedEventCommand.md"></a>`sched_event time object event` [API-Doc](api/SchedEventCommand.md)

Schedules the execution of an "event" found in "object" in a time in seconds.
If another event is running at the time, execution starts when the running
event ends.
#### <a name="SetActiveCommand.md"></a>`set_active object value` [API-Doc](api/SetActiveCommand.md)

Changes the "active" state of the object, value can be true or false.
Inactive objects are hidden in the scene.
#### <a name="SetAngleCommand.md"></a>`set_angle object degrees [immediate]` [API-Doc](api/SetAngleCommand.md)

Turns object to a degrees angle without animations. 0 sets object facing
forward, 90 sets it 90 degrees clockwise ("east") etc. When turning to the
destination angle, animations are played if they're defined in animations.

object must be player or interactive. degrees must be between [0, 360] or an
error is reported.
#### <a name="SetGlobalCommand.md"></a>`set_global name value` [API-Doc](api/SetGlobalCommand.md)

Changes the value of the global "name" with the value. Value can be "true",
"false" or an integer.
#### <a name="SetGlobalsCommand.md"></a>`set_globals pattern value` [API-Doc](api/SetGlobalsCommand.md)

Changes the value of multiple globals using a wildcard pattern, where "*"
matches zero or more arbitrary characters and "?" matches any single
character except a period (".").
#### <a name="SetHudVisibleCommand.md"></a>`set_hud_visible visible` [API-Doc](api/SetHudVisibleCommand.md)

If you have a cutscene like sequence where the player doesn't have control,
and you also have HUD elements visible, use this to hide the HUD. You want
to do that because it explicitly signals the player that there is no control
over the game at the moment. "visible" is true or false.
#### <a name="SetInteractiveCommand.md"></a>`set_interactive object value` [API-Doc](api/SetInteractiveCommand.md)

Sets whether or not an object should be interactive.
#### <a name="SetSoundStateCommand.md"></a>`set_sound_state player sound loop` [API-Doc](api/SetSoundStateCommand.md)

Change the sound playing on `player` to `sound` with optional looping if
`loop` is true.
Valid players are "bg_music" and "bg_sound".
Aside from paths to sound or music files, the values *off* and *default*.
*default* is the default value.
are also valid for `sound`
#### <a name="SetSpeedCommand.md"></a>`set_speed object speed` [API-Doc](api/SetSpeedCommand.md)

Sets how fast object moves. Speed is an integer.
#### <a name="SetStateCommand.md"></a>`set_state object state [immediate]` [API-Doc](api/SetStateCommand.md)

Changes the state of an object, and executes the state animation if present.
The command can be used to change the appearance of an item or a player
character.
If `immediate` is set to true, the animation is run directly
#### <a name="SlideBlockCommand.md"></a>`slide_block object1 object2 [speed]` [API-Doc](api/SlideBlockCommand.md)

**This command is currently not fully implemented.**

Moves object1 towards the position of object2, at the speed determined by
object1's "speed" property, unless overridden. This command is blocking.
It does not respect the room's navigation polygons, so you can move items
where the player can't walk.
#### <a name="SlideCommand.md"></a>`slide object1 object2 [speed]` [API-Doc](api/SlideCommand.md)

**This command is currently not fully implemented.**

Moves object1 towards the position of object2, at the speed determined by
object1's "speed" property, unless overridden. This command is non-blocking.
It does not respect the room's navigation polygons, so you can move items
where the player can't walk.
#### <a name="SpawnCommand.md"></a>`spawn path [object2]` [API-Doc](api/SpawnCommand.md)

Instances a scene determined by "path", and places in the position of
object2 (object2 is optional)
#### <a name="StopCommand.md"></a>`stop` [API-Doc](api/StopCommand.md)

Stops the event's execution.
#### <a name="TeleportCommand.md"></a>`teleport object1 object2` [API-Doc](api/TeleportCommand.md)

Sets the position of object1 to the position of object2.
#### <a name="TeleportPosCommand.md"></a>`teleport_pos object1 x y` [API-Doc](api/TeleportPosCommand.md)

Sets the position of object1 to the position (x,y).
#### <a name="TurnToCommand.md"></a>`turn_to object degrees [immediate]` [API-Doc](api/TurnToCommand.md)

**This command is currently not fully implemented.**

Turns object to a degrees angle with a directions animation.

0 sets object facing forward, 90 sets it 90 degrees clockwise ("east") etc.
When turning to the destination angle, animations are played if they're
defined in animations. object must be player or interactive. degrees must
be between [0, 360] or an error is reported.

Set immediate to true to show directly switch to the direction and not
show intermediate angles
#### <a name="WaitCommand.md"></a>`wait seconds` [API-Doc](api/WaitCommand.md)

Blocks execution of the current script for a number of seconds specified by the "seconds" parameter.
#### <a name="WalkBlockCommand.md"></a>`walk_block object1 object2 [speed]` [API-Doc](api/WalkBlockCommand.md)

Walks, using the walk animation, object1 towards the position of object2,
at the speed determined by object1's "speed" property,
unless overridden. This command is blocking.
#### <a name="WalkCommand.md"></a>`walk object1 object2 [speed]` [API-Doc](api/WalkCommand.md)

Walks, using the walk animation, object1 towards the position of object2,
at the speed determined by object1's "speed" property,
unless overridden. This command is non-blocking.
#### <a name="WalkToPosBlockCommand.md"></a>`walk_to_pos_block player x y` [API-Doc](api/WalkToPosBlockCommand.md)

Makes the `player` walk to the position `x`/`y`. This is a blocking command.
#### <a name="WalkToPosCommand.md"></a>`walk_to_pos player x y` [API-Doc](api/WalkToPosCommand.md)

Makes the `player` walk to the position `x`/`y`.

<!-- /ESCCOMMANDS -->

## Dialogs

Dialogs are specified by writing `?` with optional parameters, followed by a list of dialog options starting with `-`. Use `!` to end the dialog.

The following parameters are available:

* avatar: the path to a scene displaying an avatar used in the UI. Defaults to no avatar. To only set the remaining options, set this field to "-"
* timeout: (default value 0) timeout to select an option. After the time has passed, the "timeout_option" will be selected automatically. If the value is 0, there's no timeout.
* timeout_option: (default value 0) index of option (starting from 1) selected when timeout is reached.

Options support translation keys by prepending and separating them with a `:` from the rest of the text.

Example:

```
# character's "talk" event
:talk
? avatar timeout timeout_option
	- MAP:"I'd like to buy a map." [!player_has_map]
		say player "I'd like to buy a map"
		say map_vendor "Do you know the secret code?"
		?
			- UNCLE_SVEN:"Uncle Sven sends regards."
				say player "Uncle Sven sends regards."

				>	[player_has_money]
					say map_vendor "Here you go."
					say player "Thanks!"
					inventory_add map
					set_global player_has_map true
					stop

				>	[!player_has_money]
					say map_vendor "You can't afford it"
					say player "I'll be back"
          !
					stop

			- "Nevermind"
				say player "Nevermind"
        !
				stop
	- "Nevermind"
		say player "Nevermind"
    !
		stop
repeat
```
