docs/spine.md, before:

# Using Spine

[Spine](http://esotericsoftware.com/spine-in-depth) is an animation program that is not
officially supported by Godot, but there exists a [Spine module](https://github.com/GodotExplorer/spine/)
that can be added to the `modules/` directory in your Godot source tree and built
with eg. `schedtool -D -e ccache scons platform=x11 tools=yes target=release_debug`
or whatever you like.

For compatibility with Godot, run `spine-to-godot-scene.py` ("the script"), found in the [Spine to Godot](https://github.com/mjtorn/spine-to-godot/) project, from your project root (typically the `device/` directory).

Do note the script requires `python3-docopt`, so please install it using `pip3` or whatever
you prefer. You may also want to read its documentation; it may expand to cover things not in the scope of Escoria!

## Caveats

Do note that Spine animations cannot be played in reverse by design.

## Prerequisities

If you have different skins for your Spine skeletons, and multiple files for eg. moving in different directions, make sure they're named exactly the same. The script will do its best to make this easy for you to use.

Do not use whitespaces anywhere; Escoria will not understand whitespaces, even if Godot would.

## Creating Spine scenes

Copy your Spine data under eg. `items/foo/`. This can be the player or an NPC or even just an item.

Use the script to generate a scene in the same `items/foo/`.

The script generates a scene with a `Spine` node and animations. These animations are autogenerated and have horrible names, but they're there.

## Using Spine scenes

To avoid editing and using the autogenerated animations, go to the animation editor and for every relevant animation, make a copy and rename it.

Looking at the Spine node, you'll have to select the different animations to get their durations. Unfortunately there is no other way now to get them.

Update your copied animation with the relevant information (like duration), add tracks, or whatever your project requires.

## Examples

### Changing skins

Make a copy of the `spine_character__skin__blue` style animations to call it `skin_blue`.

Now you must run the animation in your game: `cut_scene player skin_blue`. It's not really a cut scene, but this is how we guarantee it finishes before anything else happens. To make your player idle after that, run `set_state player idle`.

### Moving around

Because your movement directions will likely be in different files, you will get multiple visible Spine nodes when moving.

The solution is to copy an animation like `spine_character_front__move_down` and call it `move_down`. Then you add tracks to it that hide the other Spine nodes for the duration of the animation.

Commit message:

Player is stricter about its node layout, also document Spine implication

docs/spine.md, after:

# Using Spine

[Spine](http://esotericsoftware.com/spine-in-depth) is an animation program that is not
officially supported by Godot, but there exists a [Spine module](https://github.com/GodotExplorer/spine/)
that can be added to the `modules/` directory in your Godot source tree and built
with eg. `schedtool -D -e ccache scons platform=x11 tools=yes target=release_debug`
or whatever you like.

For compatibility with Godot, run `spine-to-godot-scene.py` ("the script"), found in the [Spine to Godot](https://github.com/mjtorn/spine-to-godot/) project, from your project root (typically the `device/` directory).

Do note the script requires `python3-docopt`, so please install it using `pip3` or whatever
you prefer. You may also want to read its documentation; it may expand to cover things not in the scope of Escoria!

## Caveats

Do note that Spine animations cannot be played in reverse by design.

## Prerequisities

If you have different skins for your Spine skeletons, and multiple files for eg. moving in different directions, make sure they're named exactly the same. The script will do its best to make this easy for you to use.

Do not use whitespaces anywhere; Escoria will not understand whitespaces, even if Godot would.

## Creating Spine scenes

Copy your Spine data under eg. `items/foo/`. This can be the player or an NPC or even just an item.

Use the script to generate a scene in the same `items/foo/`.

The script generates a scene with a `Spine` node and animations. These animations are autogenerated and have horrible names, but they're there.

## Using Spine scenes

To enable interoperability between Spine and eg. shadows, or other nodes that don't want to be flipped when the character is flipped,
create a `Node2D` node called `sprite` and put the `Spine` node(s) under it.

To avoid editing and using the autogenerated animations, go to the animation editor and for every relevant animation, make a copy and rename it.

Looking at the Spine node, you'll have to select the different animations to get their durations. Unfortunately there is no other way now to get them.

Update your copied animation with the relevant information (like duration), add tracks, or whatever your project requires.

## Examples

### Changing skins

Make a copy of the `spine_character__skin__blue` style animations to call it `skin_blue`.

Now you must run the animation in your game: `cut_scene player skin_blue`. It's not really a cut scene, but this is how we guarantee it finishes before anything else happens. To make your player idle after that, run `set_state player idle`.

### Moving around

Because your movement directions will likely be in different files, you will get multiple visible Spine nodes when moving.

The solution is to copy an animation like `spine_character_front__move_down` and call it `move_down`. Then you add tracks to it that hide the other Spine nodes for the duration of the animation.
