docs/terrain.md, before:

# Terrain

Your player and NPCs walk along a defined terrain. You'll need a `NavigationPolygon2D`
for that, and attaching a script for special features like scaling and lighting.

Note that lighting on the terrain is not the same as lighting by `Light2D`, it is modulating
the player and items based on a separate texture. You'll make it white and color in the areas
where you want something to change.

## Scaling

### Scalenodes

The easiest way to make your player and NPCs scale is to use the `terrain_scalenodes.gd`
script. Then you create `Position2D` nodes with `scalenode.gd` attached to them.

The names of these nodes don't matter, except you need `scale_min` and `scale_max`.
Those two should be placed above and below the navpoly.

Anything which is set to scale from the map will linear-interpolate between the `target_scale`
values.

Caveat: although these are `tool` scripts, you can't refresh the scalenode list at the
moment so you will need to refresh the scene when making bigger changes.

### Gradient

The harder, though more versatile way, is to create a separate scalemap texture.

This is further documented in the [Flossmanuals booklight](https://fr.flossmanuals.net/creating-point-and-click-games-with-escoria/lightening/).

Attach `terrain.gd`.

You'll define a scale range for how much to scale by. The terrain will look for the blue
value of a pixel and scale accordingly. More blue is a bigger scale.

Caveat: for some reason this method is currently very slow, so having many NPCs move
around will probably kill performance.

## Lighting by lightmap

Reading pixels is, for whatever reason, slow. It is necessary for lightmaps, and scalemaps
if you use them. To mitigate the performance problems, there's a script `lightmap_area.gd`
which you would attach to an `Area2D` and draw its polygon or shape around the part of
your lightmap that actually contains information.

## Dynamic navigation

You can attach `nav_poly_instance.gd` to multiple `NavigationPolygonInstance`s, give
them `global_id`s and use `set_active` to toggle where you're allowed to move.

Note that you should use pixel snapping or somesuch to share vertices between the
polygons or they are not considered the same terrain.

Commit message:

Make player not require a terrain
Items don't and it's ok for players not to either
if the room warrants it.

Comes with a note in the documentation on terrain as well.

docs/terrain.md, after:

# Terrain

Your player and NPCs walk along a defined terrain. You'll need a `NavigationPolygon2D`
for that, and attaching a script for special features like scaling and lighting.

Note that lighting on the terrain is not the same as lighting by `Light2D`, it is modulating
the player and items based on a separate texture. You'll make it white and color in the areas
where you want something to change.

A terrain is not strictly necessary. In rooms like that, all interactions are handled
as if the player had already walked to the target position.

## Scaling

### Scalenodes

The easiest way to make your player and NPCs scale is to use the `terrain_scalenodes.gd`
script. Then you create `Position2D` nodes with `scalenode.gd` attached to them.

The names of these nodes don't matter, except you need `scale_min` and `scale_max`.
Those two should be placed above and below the navpoly.

Anything which is set to scale from the map will linear-interpolate between the `target_scale`
values.

Caveat: although these are `tool` scripts, you can't refresh the scalenode list at the
moment so you will need to refresh the scene when making bigger changes.

### Gradient

The harder, though more versatile way, is to create a separate scalemap texture.

This is further documented in the [Flossmanuals booklight](https://fr.flossmanuals.net/creating-point-and-click-games-with-escoria/lightening/).

Attach `terrain.gd`.

You'll define a scale range for how much to scale by. The terrain will look for the blue
value of a pixel and scale accordingly. More blue is a bigger scale.

Caveat: for some reason this method is currently very slow, so having many NPCs move
around will probably kill performance.

## Lighting by lightmap

Reading pixels is, for whatever reason, slow. It is necessary for lightmaps, and scalemaps
if you use them. To mitigate the performance problems, there's a script `lightmap_area.gd`
which you would attach to an `Area2D` and draw its polygon or shape around the part of
your lightmap that actually contains information.

## Dynamic navigation

You can attach `nav_poly_instance.gd` to multiple `NavigationPolygonInstance`s, give
them `global_id`s and use `set_active` to toggle where you're allowed to move.

Note that you should use pixel snapping or somesuch to share vertices between the
polygons or they are not considered the same terrain.
